rules/03.setup_protocal.md, before:

# 🚀 Project Initialization Protocol

Use this protocol when the user commands: "Set up a new project."

## 1. Input Processing

1.  **Ask for Project Metadata** (if not provided):
    - **Project Name** (`<project>`)
    - **Description** (`<description>`)
    - **Primary Language** (`python` or `c++`)
2.  **Define Variables:**
    - `<pname>`: Snake case version of `<project>` (replace whitespace/dashes with `_`).

## 2. Directory & File Structure Creation

_Before creating files, establish the skeleton defined in [`02.project_structure.md`](./02.project_structure.md)._

1.  **Common Directories:**
    - `tests/`
    - `examples/`
    - `.github/workflows/`
2.  **Language-Specific Directories:**

    - **If Python:** Create `src/<pname>/`.
    - **If C++:** Create `src/` and `external/`.

3.  **Common Standard Files:**
    - `README.md` (Empty)
    - `docs/agents/AGENTS.md` (Initialize with standard template)
    - `docs/agents/todo.md` (Initialize empty checklist)

## 3. Configuration & Meta Files

### A. General Configuration

1.  **Git Ignore (`.gitignore`):**
    - Use template from: `https://github.com/github/gitignore`
    - Choose language based on **Primary Language** provided above
    - **Modifications:**
      - Uncomment `.vscode`
      - Add `.DS_Store`
      - Add `_output/` and `build/`
      - Add `_version.py` if **Primary Language** is Python
2.  **License:**
    - Add `LICENSE` file (Default: `GPL-3.0-or-later` from spdx.org).
    - Add `.license-header.txt` (change `GPL-3.0-or-later` if the license changes):
      ```text
      SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
      ```
3.  **Citation (`CITATION.cff`):**
    - Use [standard template](./templates/CITATION.cff).
    - Set `date-released` to today's date.
4.  **Pre-commit (`.pre-commit-config.yaml`):**
    - Use [standard template](./templates/pre-commit-config.yaml).

### B. Language-Specific Configuration

#### **Option 1: Python Setup** 🐍

1.  **Build Config (`pyproject.toml`):**
    - Use [standard template](./templates/pyproject.toml).
    - **Replacements:**
      - Replace `<pname>` with the variable defined in Step 1.
      - Replace `<project>` with the original project name.
      - Replace `<description>` with the project description.
2.  **Init File:**
    - Create `src/<pname>/__init__.py`.

#### **Option 2: C++ Setup** ⚡

1.  **Build Config (`CMakeLists.txt`):**
    - Create a standard `CMakeLists.txt` at the root (Modern CMake 3.15+).
    - Define project name as `<project>`.
    - Include `src/` subdirectory.

### C. CI/CD Setup

1.  **GitHub Workflows:**
    - Find commonly-used workflows in [gh_workflows](../external/gh_workflows/)
    - Save to `.github/workflows/`.
    - Add `.disabled` suffix to all filenames.

## 4. Git Initialization

Run the following bash commands in order:

```bash
git init
git add .
git commit -m "feat: project initialization"
git branch -M master
git remote add origin git@github.com:ChiahsinChu/<project>.git

```

## 5. Verification

- Check that `src/` exists.
- Check that `docs/agents/` contains the context files.
- Confirm `git status` is clean.
- Check that `pip install -e . --dry-run` succeeds.

Commit message:

docs: add reminder about GitHub secrets before enabling workflows

rules/03.setup_protocal.md, after:

# 🚀 Project Initialization Protocol

Use this protocol when the user commands: "Set up a new project."

## 1. Input Processing

1.  **Ask for Project Metadata** (if not provided):
    - **Project Name** (`<project>`)
    - **Description** (`<description>`)
    - **Primary Language** (`python` or `c++`)
2.  **Define Variables:**
    - `<pname>`: Snake case version of `<project>` (replace whitespace/dashes with `_`).

## 2. Directory & File Structure Creation

_Before creating files, establish the skeleton defined in [`02.project_structure.md`](./02.project_structure.md)._

1.  **Common Directories:**
    - `tests/`
    - `examples/`
    - `.github/workflows/`
2.  **Language-Specific Directories:**

    - **If Python:** Create `src/<pname>/`.
    - **If C++:** Create `src/` and `external/`.

3.  **Common Standard Files:**
    - `README.md` (Empty)
    - `docs/agents/AGENTS.md` (Initialize with standard template)
    - `docs/agents/todo.md` (Initialize empty checklist)

## 3. Configuration & Meta Files

### A. General Configuration

1.  **Git Ignore (`.gitignore`):**
    - Use template from: `https://github.com/github/gitignore`
    - Choose language based on **Primary Language** provided above
    - **Modifications:**
      - Uncomment `.vscode`
      - Add `.DS_Store`
      - Add `_output/` and `build/`
      - Add `_version.py` if **Primary Language** is Python
2.  **License:**
    - Add `LICENSE` file (Default: `GPL-3.0-or-later` from spdx.org).
    - Add `.license-header.txt` (change `GPL-3.0-or-later` if the license changes):
      ```text
      SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
      ```
3.  **Citation (`CITATION.cff`):**
    - Use [standard template](./templates/CITATION.cff).
    - Set `date-released` to today's date.
4.  **Pre-commit (`.pre-commit-config.yaml`):**
    - Use [standard template](./templates/pre-commit-config.yaml).

### B. Language-Specific Configuration

#### **Option 1: Python Setup** 🐍

1.  **Build Config (`pyproject.toml`):**
    - Use [standard template](./templates/pyproject.toml).
    - **Replacements:**
      - Replace `<pname>` with the variable defined in Step 1.
      - Replace `<project>` with the original project name.
      - Replace `<description>` with the project description.
2.  **Init File:**
    - Create `src/<pname>/__init__.py`.

#### **Option 2: C++ Setup** ⚡

1.  **Build Config (`CMakeLists.txt`):**
    - Create a standard `CMakeLists.txt` at the root (Modern CMake 3.15+).
    - Define project name as `<project>`.
    - Include `src/` subdirectory.

### C. CI/CD Setup

1.  **GitHub Workflows:**
    - Find commonly-used workflows in [gh_workflows](../external/gh_workflows/)
    - Save to `.github/workflows/`.
    - Add `.disabled` suffix to all filenames.
    - **⚠️ Important:** Before enabling any workflow by removing the `.disabled` suffix, ensure all required secrets are configured in the GitHub repository settings (Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions).

## 4. Git Initialization

Run the following bash commands in order:

```bash
git init
git add .
git commit -m "feat: project initialization"
git branch -M master
git remote add origin git@github.com:ChiahsinChu/<project>.git

```

## 5. Verification

- Check that `src/` exists.
- Check that `docs/agents/` contains the context files.
- Confirm `git status` is clean.
- Check that `pip install -e . --dry-run` succeeds.
